Lets now look at a few of the structural or
built-in directives given to us by angular.
The first one we’ll look at is the NgIf
directive.
We use this directive when we want to add,
remove or update view elements.
We used NgIf in a previous section when we
wanted to show or hide an image based on whether
or not a button had been clicked.
In this example our image would appear when
showImage was in its True state.
So in this way, NgIf can be used to show or
hide something based on a boolean value.
We can also use NgIf with conditional logic.
Lets now look at a new example using a conditional.
In this example I want to display a div with
the number of books in stock only if there
is more then 1 book in stock.
Otherwise nothing is going to be displayed.
To do this lets open up our books-list.component.html
file.
And I’m going to add a new p class right
below our reviews.
I’m going to change the styling to text
success.
Then also add in a div above for a little
space.
Now I’m going to create my ngIf here setting
it equal to booksInStock greater than 0.
Then I’m going to add the text Number in
Stock and interpolate booksInStock.
So since we haven’t yet created this booksInStock
property, we should expect not to see this
p element show up.
So if we save and refresh the app, as you
can see nothing is appearing.
Lets fix that by creating our property inside
of our component file.
We’ll say booksInStock is a number equal
to 2.
Then we’ll save this file and on reload,
and now you can see our element appears.
This is a contrived example but you can imagine
that if we were retrieving some data from
an API and we only wanted to display the data
if it existed or was greater then a certain
number.
Another common use case is when we want to
display some message only when an error has
occurred, then we would be using ngIf in a
very similar way.
Now lets move on to the ngFor directive.